we bought the elusive Intel i7 10 700k
on launch day and then overnighted it
then Patrick and I worked literally
around the clock to get the review
turned around in under 24 hours from the
time we received the cpu through the
mail so the price we pay it was four
hundred ten dollars for the ten 700k
that puts it between expectedly the ten
600k at about 260 280 range and theory
and the ten 900k which will be over five
hundred dollars the pricing on Amazon
for the nearest competition would be and
these are our nine 3900 X currently 420
dollars and it's similar elsewhere on
the web that's supposed to be the new
permanent price the 3,700 X might be
another apt comparison if you wanted to
save some money on something that
competes potentially with a ten 700k
that one is about two hundred ninety
dollars these days so we're gonna be
looking at the tensile mark a obviously
four quarter core Delta's for thermals
we looking at the frequency behavior the
expected frequency behavior and stock
specification from Intel we're looking
at 3d rendering video rendering
compression decompression applications
code compile gaming obviously
overclocking and more all in under 24
hours this was done before that this
video is brought to you by Squarespace
Squarespace is what we've been using for
years to manage our own gamers Nexus
store and we've been incredibly happy
with the choice Squarespace makes
ecommerce easy for those interested in
starting stores but it also has powerful
tools to build all types of websites
photo galleries for photographers resume
and portfolio sites and small business
sites are all easily done through
Squarespace having built a lot of client
websites the old way before running GN
full-time we can easily recommend
Squarespace has a powerful fast solution
go to squarespace.com slash gamers nexus
to get 10% off your first purchase with
Squarespace the 10700 kind of reminds us
of the 90s have a hard K where it's sort
of in a weird position in an Intel's
pricing structure but the 9700 K
although it felt terrible to buy because
it didn't have hyper threading enabled
on an i7
at least had the advantage of having a
couple extra threads whereas the 9600 K
without hyper threading a lot of the
time it was dead in the water
despite being objectively better in a
lot of games than am these closest
competitor the 3600 the 9600 K was
occasionally abysmal and it just
depended on what game you were looking
at now
dames that exceeds six active threads to
the extent that it tanks frame times
aren't too common normally the CPU can
deal with it a little bit better than
that in the form of just lower
performance but not game ruining
performance that wasn't always the case
though and those games that did achieve
ruinous levels of performance made it
hard to justify the 9600 K over just
losing 13% of your performance for a
3,600 instead it's different now though
the 10 700 K has brought hyper-threading
back it's a 9900 except it's about $100
cheaper and the frequencies are changed
around a little bit so that's where we
are for the 10-7 it's a 99 heart a
drop-in replacement for cheaper which is
how the markets supposed to work as
Thane's age but Intel still getting back
into it after getting pretty thoroughly
clobbered by AMD for the last couple of
years so let's just get straight into
the numbers we've got a lot to go
through today we need to start with some
thermals so the court scored deltas if
you want to learn about what cooling
solution we're using you can check our
in-depth CPU testing methodology for
more information on the coolers we use
and why we chose them for this it's an
ex 60 to 80 mil CLC at 100% fan and palm
speeds we illustrated with both the
10900 k and 10600 k that intel's
approached to die sanding has had actual
meaningful improvement on core to core
Delta's at least it has so far as we
continue to build our sample size will
better understand how much of that is
solder variants versus improvement from
the 300 micron reduction in the thigh
height and the subsequent increase in
the IHS thickness in blender all core
workloads the 10 700 kg maximum quarter
core Delta was approximately 6 degrees
Celsius at full stock for 134 watts this
always gets more exaggerated as the
power that goes up but we still max out
at 9 degrees Celsius core to core this
is much better than we've seen on
previous Intel CPUs for core to core
Delta's so it appears that following the
10 600 K nine hundred K and 700 K
results we've now collected
Intel's die sanding approach has
legitimately improved the thermal
performance as we've done for the
previous two 10 series CPUs we need to
start next by defining the expected
stock behavior of the CPU not doing this
means that you could end up running the
CPU way out of spec which some
motherboards enable by default
asus gets a lot of credit for
following Intel guidance rather than
cheating to try and beat the other
motherboard makers the 10 700 K has a pl
one of 125 watts PL 2 of 229 and tau of
56 it should never exceed 5.1 gigahertz
on three active cores with the rest set
to 48 48 and then 47 down the stack so
our CPU like in the previous reviews was
running at the proper Intel guidance if
you don't know what that means check our
other video on it and also note that
Intel guidance is going to be
conservatively low as compared to the
motherboard makers who just blast the
frequencies without any regard to spec
to better understand how the CPU behaves
with regard to boosting in frequency
here's a benchmark of cinnamon charge 20
single threaded runt this shows the
maximum clock at a given interval we hit
50 100 megahertz twice during the run
checked across all cores with the
average at 4900 to 5000 mega Hertz for a
given interval we don't want to make
this video even longer so we won't break
it out per core but the numbers match
the previous image that we showed before
getting into the gaming charts one more
look at a frequency plot this one shows
all core frequency under a load that
hits tau and then expires the behavior
is as expected for all cores loaded it
starts closer to 40 900 megahertz but
immediately drops to 40 700 megahertz
then hits the tau expiration period and
drops to about 4300 243 75 mega Hertz
all core average Total War three
kingdoms campaign will start us off for
games this one is interesting because
the very top end is actually memory
bound rather than GPU about something
that we rarely see in gaming
applications given the prevalence of
heavy graphics loads first and foremost
we discovered this in our 10 600 K
tuning benchmark which you can find on
the channel separately if you want to
learn more the 10 700 K stock CPU
doesn't get too close to that 152 FPS
average memory bandwidth barrier and so
it's scoring has it between the 9900
case stock and 9700 k 5.1 gigahertz
results the overclock gets it to 147 FPS
average about tied with the stock 10 900
K and these closest CPU is the 1350 a
stock CPU down at 127 FPS average which
allows the 10 700 K a lead of about 13%
if you wanted to look at it another way
because stat math is a great way of
portraying whatever scenario you want
the 3300 ax 4.4 gigahertz result at 124
FPS average is able to achieve a
five percent of the performance shown by
the ten 700k 5.1 gigahertz results the
are three 3300 acts really is enough for
gaming for most users and if all you're
doing is building a gaming machine
without much regard for the absolute
highest frame rate performance or care
for other applications the 3300 acts
would still be a major cost saver that
allows GPU usage pretty much all the way
up the stack and you can see our
bottleneck testing for that but not
everyone wants something lower-end and
might have value for some of these
mid-range and high-end chips and for
that we've got the numbers on the screen
for you hitman two has shown expressive
CPU scaling and our benchmarks lately
the ten 700k stock CPU is within error
of the 9900 K at five point one
gigahertz it's just ahead of the ten 600
K at five point one and it's just behind
the ten 600 K with arraigned overclock
the 10900 case stock CPU outdoes the ten
700 K stock CPU by about three point
three percent here so nothing exciting
for an ante comparison the chart leader
for AMD section is the 3900 X doc CPU at
124 FPS average this positioning allows
the 10700 stock CPU a lead of about 10%
F 1 20 19 gives us a relatively
unconstrained look at CPU performance
without regard for GPU limitations the
top of the chart is occupied by the 10
600 K with a heavy tune and the 10900 K
at 5 points each gigahertz showing
scallion from core and memory
overclocking the 10-7 hard case stock
CPU is about equal to the 9700 case
stock CPU so the extra threads don't
mean a whole lot here we saw this same
behavior with the 9700 9900 K both at
five point one as well the 10900 k stock
CPU leads the 10 700 K stock by about
two and a half percent so the Delta is
meaningless in a practical sense and the
lows are also within error the 10 700 K
a five point one scales directly
responding with a 283 FPS average from a
5% uplift against stock which ranks it
as between the 9900 K at five point one
and the 10900 K at five point two
gigahertz and these CPUs are mostly led
by the 3300 acts with a memory tune and
infinity fabric tune at 242 FPS average
peak but as for comparisons using our
standard test memory the 3700 ax is
closest in stock performance at 239 FPS
average that's about a 13 percent lead
again for the 10 700 K versus the 3700
ex stock now force
40p all the results become truncated by
a GPU limitation we include these charts
to show realistically what's expected
for higher resolution gaming where GPU
limitations are real consideration but
the framerate is still very high f1 is
great for that and these results we
still see a direct advantage for the
higher-end in two parts with higher
frequencies but that advantage becomes
more constrained the 10700 K for example
is now about equal with the 3700 X and
the 10 600 K stock CPUs overclocking
still pushes it toward the top but
they're all about the same at that point
the division 2 is another great example
of a realistic GPU bind this is at 1080p
medium and that's the limit of what
we're willing to run for a benchmark
although we could force more scaling by
further driving the settings into the
ground at some point we have to draw the
line for what's reasonable or useful to
the end user sure we could show more
scaling here by dropping the resolution
comically low but ultimately outside of
speculation on what that might mean for
the future which is always a dangerous
game to play there's not a whole lot of
practical information that we can derive
from that everything between the 10 700
K and 99 ook at 5.1 gigahertz is roughly
with an error or close enough since it's
all limited by the GPU no meaningful
differences emerge until we get to a.m.
these parts statistically speaking and
even those differences aren't
necessarily appreciable to most users
but they'd be important for people who
are
frame snobs and we don't mean that in a
critical way from the standpoint of a
strict CPU review these numbers are
invalid for measurement of differences
because the 10s days would peak higher
and so you'd have a bigger gap however
they're valid for illustrating that real
limitations outside the CPU are often
encountered first shuttle the Tomb
Raider with dx12 is next the 10 700 K
stock CPU ran at 166 FPS average stock
with frame x pastes consistently behind
as compared to other CPUs on the charts
while the overclocked posts no
meaningful gain note that this is a
title where we saw a good scaling out of
cash ratio overclocking on our 10 600 K
in that content so that would be the
next move to improve 10 700 K
performance the 10 700 K ends up
functionally the same for performance as
the 10 6 in gaming it has a tactical
advantage as in a measurable and
repeatable one but not an appreciable
advantage
the ten nine stock CPU runs about seven
percent better here but also runs into a
GP limit at the top illustrated by the
tied results of the ten nine hundred K
stock and the OC benchmarks that gap is
wider in some of the earlier games we
showed if you wanted to see true scaling
the ten six hundred K is also
competitive and although this is an arms
race where you could also OC the cash of
the ten seven the ten six can be made
competitive at least with these results
as for Rison that establishes its top
end at about 150 FPS average in this
game
so the 3700 X is led by the ten 700 K by
about twelve percent stock to stock this
is the same Delta that we saw in some of
the earlier games and is about the max
range that you can expect to see in less
constrained scenarios that don't have as
much of a GP limitation as the previous
game the tens of 100k also runs
technically better frame time
consistency with a lower deviation from
the mean
Albee it not in an appreciable sense we
only point this out because of the
misconception about Rison being quote
smoother which isn't wholly true of
course from a value standpoint the 3300
ex remains one of the best buys right
now but this is where the 10700 ka Falls
I read that to chart with medium
settings is still very limited since we
only added it after starting our initial
foray into this new testing methodology
to learn why we added medium later check
out our dedicated testing methodology
piece bearing in mind that we still need
to add the 3600 the 3700 acts and
everything else this chart at least
shows relative scaling between Intel
high-end parts and against a likely top
performer for AMD the 3300 acts with a
tune the result is the 10 700 K at 144
FPS average stock with it lows
consistent and the 10 600 K about equal
to it in both stock and overclocked
metrics the 10700 5.1 pushes up to 153
FPS average which is about tied with a
10 900k a stock CPU at this point we're
running into other limitations we won't
bother showing the high charts for dx12
or vulcan everything's the same up and
down the rankings
due to a hard GP bottleneck and again
see the methodology piece for more info
finally before you get into the
production benchmarks for an older more
frequency bound games represent another
class of gaming we can defer to steam
top 10 title GTA 5 the 10 700 K stock
CPU slightly outperforms the 9 after K
stock CPU
and the ten 600k a 5.1 gigahertz CPU pre
tuned while also sitting below the ten
nine by a few FPS average it's not a
huge gap between the top performers but
it's clear that the highest frequency
parts are still winning the night I
heard K and 9700 K at five point one
both curiously outperform the ten seven
at five point one and do so repeatedly
we're not sure if this is a result of
some mitigation and silicon of an
immature bios or of yet another one of
GTA 5's strange and numerous bugs but
the results are repeatable and these
CPUs top out around 113 FPS average
including the likes of the 3950 3900
acts and the not-so-distant 3,700 X the
10-7 ends up holding about an 11 percent
lead over the 3900 acts when both are
stock now we can move into our
production tests and next up is blender
of 3d modeling and animation open source
solution that has exploded in popularity
over the years we use this tool in-house
even to design all of our own products
including our recent GN mouse mat with
all those 3d PC components on it
rendering can be done with Eevee in real
time or with renderers and for CPUs we
use cycles the GN monkeyhead render is a
sepia stress test that we built for
reviews the intel i7 10700 k stock cpu
finishes the render in 14 minutes out
matching the 9,900 k stock CPU by about
1.3 minutes or a reduction of 8.5% the
3700 X is about equal with the 10 700 K
in this logo render but as we try to
remind people regularly it's important
to have multiple blender scenes to
create a properly accurate depiction
since CPUs behave different ways with
different renders you'll see that in the
next chart the 3900 X here obviously has
a significant lead benefited directly by
more threads to render more simultaneous
tiles and finishes in 9.6 minutes for a
31% reduction where's the 10 700 K stock
overclocking the 10 702 5.1 gigahertz
gets it between the 10 core 2310 900k
and 10 900 x stock CPUs for a 10%
improvement here's the G M logo render
which is our heaviest workload for this
one for this the 10 700 K loses rank
versus the a.m. the r7 3700 X which now
completes the render in sixteen point
nine minutes versus 18 point
two on the ten 700k a reduction of 7.1%
in total time required the ten 700k
stock cpu is between the 9900 k stock
and the OC results which makes sense and
it's behind the 3700 X it's about one to
two minutes faster than the r7 2700 at
4.1 gigahertz and the 10900 case stock
and 3900 AK stock CPUs both have a
significant lead ranked at 37% reduced
time for the 3900 acts and about 15%
reduced time for the 10 900k stock CPUs
overclocking the 10 seven to five point
one gigahertz helps to reach rough
equivalence with a 10-9 but that's about
the best we can do with normal cooling
here's our set of adobe premiere results
starting with our 1080p 60 render for
this test the 10 700 K stock CPU
completes the render in the same time as
the 3700 X and 9900 Kate stock CPUs the
3900 acts and ten nine hundred K both
complete the render ten and a half
percent faster than the ten seven there
is meaningful uplift against the 3600
but the price difference means a
completely different category of CPU the
4k render is far more abusive with the
10 some 100k finishing an 11 minute
stock or ten and a half overclocked the
ten sub 100k stock is roughly the same
as the 3700 ax here with the 3700 X
being technically superior the 3900 X
has a significant lead at 8.9 minutes
now we can look at our sevens of
compression and decompression tests
which position the 10 700 K stock CPU
about equal to the 1900
at five point one gigahertz that's a
good improvement generationally for
Intel but only because it's the same
architecture and sort of the same
generation with a numerical iteration
that's an improvement though about three
and a half percent the 3700 X is roughly
the same distance ahead and sits between
the stock and overclocked
10 700 K numbers although the difference
between all of these isn't too
meaningful unless you're doing
compression and decompression all day
long constantly this application scales
directly with cores but does run into
memory limitations with top-end threader
per part and it also benefits from
increased core count clearly the ten-hut
case stock CPU is an example of further
scaling for decompression the Intel i7
10-7 hard case stock CPU scores 86,000
MIPS which isn't too impressive when
considering the proximity of both these
and over clocks are five 3600 CPE
results that's at 73 k maps and 75 and a
half-game ifs respectively the ten seven
is functionally equivalent to ninety
nine hundred k stock cpu here with the
twenty seven hundred at 4.1 gigahertz or
another eight core sixteen thread part
for about a one percent lead these are
mostly within or very near error but
worst-case scenario is that they're
functionally equal given the price
advantage of the twenty seven hundred at
least back when it was readily available
that's a good look for AMD the ten seven
hundred k OC does help it it gets to
ninety three thousand MIPS and it brings
it nearing equivalence with its ten nine
hundred k stock cpu while the thirty
seven hundred x outperforms the ten
seven hundred k OC for the stock 3700 ax
verse ten 7oc
by seven point three percent the 3900 ax
is in the next a salon of performance at
an impressive 145 thousand MIPS or a
lead of sixty eight percent when looking
at these stock numbers for the 3900 X
versus the 10 700 K our code compiled
with chromium clean CL and ninja is next
as tested on a Windows platform this is
measured in minutes to complete similar
to blender and is representative of
recompile of an entire project lower is
better here the 10 700 K stock CPU
completes the compiled in 100 minutes
allowing the 3700 X elite of 8 percent
and the 3900 acts a lead of 35% where
lead here means less time required to
render all stock to stock numbers the 10
700 K roughly matches the 10 900 X not
to be confused with the 10 nine hundred
K where the former is overclocked to
five point one gigahertz and the latter
is the stock 10 900 X as for the 10 nine
hundred K that's leading stock to stock
against the 10 700 K by about 18% our
next one is handbrake transcoding to
h.265 the 10 700 K stock CPU finishes
the work in fourteen point six minutes
with an overclock improving to 13 and a
half minutes
that's flanking the 9700 K at five point
one gigahertz on either side the our 737
hardac's meanwhile is outmatched by the
10 700 K here allowing the 10 700 K a
stock the stock lead of 5.2% meanwhile
the 3900 ax
leads the 10-7 heart k with both stock
by 12% forecasts groups v-ray another 3d
modeling application with a baked in
renderer the 10-7 RK aligned mostly
between the 3700 acts and 99 hundred KS
stock CPUs the Dalit between the 10 700
km 99 her case stock results is
basically with an error the 10 7 hard
kayo see also doesn't really gain as
much it's about six point three percent
here and it ends up with an error of the
99 RK at the same frequency the 10900 k
benefits from a 21 percent uplift stock
the stock thanks largely to its core
account while the 3900 ex stock result
is 42 percent ahead of the stock 10 700
k these are similar results to what we
saw for scaling and blender finally for
power consumption we'll start with the
EPS 12 volt cable draw for a blender all
for work look this one has the 10 700 K
at 134 watts with the 10900 K at about
the same power consumption keep in mind
that we do our testing within the Intel
pl/1 PL 2 and tau guidance for official
spec so these are the proper stock
numbers the tenth 700 K pulled about 268
watts with our overclock applied the
overclock consumes less power than the
10900 K despite a higher voltage as a
result of its lower core account for a
senate Bancho our 20 NT before tau
expiry the 10 700 k draws about 161
watts whereas the 10900 k was closer to
200 watts overall then like the other
Intel CPUs in an objective sense from
purely numbers this is a good CPU
meaning that we're not seeing anything
that's objectively bad at least when
it's run under stock settings
comparatively it's a bit tougher because
comparatively now you're looking at
price and competition and that
standpoint which is the one that really
matters for consumer we think that Intel
was right to send out the AI 510 600 K
instead of the 10 700 K when we first
saw the specs that Intel posted with its
slides when the 10th gen gen was
announced our thinking was that the 10-7
hard K might actually be the most
exciting just because of the numbers on
the spec sheet but in reality the 10 600
K is so damn close to the 10 7 in both
realistic gaming scenarios and in
scenarios where we've intentionally
removed the restraints on the GPU to
push it all to the CPU
it's just the 10-6 is too close to
really justify the 10-7 for a gaming
only scenario and once you look at
production and these two competitive
there especially with the 3900 acts now
roughly the same price and the 3700 acts
a bit cheaper for mostly equivalent
performance in a lot of the applications
so where this leads us is we think if
you're someone who needs fairly high FPS
but not the highest FPS the 10 600 K
makes a lot of sense it saves a lot of
money it performs roughly the same as
the 10 700 K and if you're willing to do
this and please please be willing to do
it because it's a case Q part and you're
buying is e49 your motherboard if you're
willing to do it please spend about an
hour trying an overclock on it a simple
one set the cash ratio especially to
something like maybe 48 acts and then
try to get the core 25.0 all core at
least maybe 5.1 you can see our previous
video on the 10-6 tuning for more on
that because once you do those things it
becomes a night at 10 900 km performance
in most gaming scenarios so the 10 6 is
extremely compelling in that regard if
you're someone who needs more balance
you care a lot about production
applications you care at least a little
bit about things like video editing
Adobe Premiere performance and you want
to save some money the 3600 is still the
absolute best all-around performer at
the price nothing comes close to it in
terms of price to all-around performance
it is a well-rounded CPU we still keep
the 3600 in the top regard it's
basically the 36 is how we view what
Sandy Bridge used to be we think the
3600 is sort of the new Sandy Bridge
it's gonna hold on a long time so those
are your two choices there if you want
absolute highest framerate and you're an
FPS snob and you play competitive games
only well shell out for a 10 900k maybe
overclock it a bit because it can outdo
the 10 600 in a like-for-like scenario
the 10 700 then has really nowhere left
to stand because we've now recommended a
3900 axe or a 3700 axe for people who
are a little bit more production or
workstation focused and we've
recommended the intel parts for people
who are less price conscious but very
gaming focused and then the 3600 for
everyone in between where your price
conscious and you want to be
of everything where does the ten 7rk
fall in this scenario it's kind of like
the 3,700 X was in our opinion we know
it was a popular CPU but our opinion on
the 3700 X part was that you should buy
a 3900 X or a 3600 and the part in
between the extra hundred bucks in most
scenarios but not all didn't make a lot
of sense now obviously there are
scenarios where it made sense and we
explain those in the 37 X review
but the 10700 falls in basically the
same position as far as we're concerned
and either of the other two on either
side make a lot more sense so that's it
for this one thanks for watching
subscribe for more go to store documents
access dotnet to support these types of
efforts especially when we shell out the
amount of money we did for the CPU for a
review or go to patreon.com/scishow and
his access to help site directly and on
the store of course you can backorder
our new Mouse mats if you want a
functional product for us or the mouse
the mod mats for another functional
product we'll see you all next time
[Music]